                Critical reasoning
                ------------------ 
                                     -

Critical reasoning:section3 
20marks
 20 min.

1.My father has no brothers. he has thrre sisters who has two childs
each. My grand father has two sons. Which of the following is true?
A)thrre of my aunts have two sons. B)My father is only child to his father
C)I have 6 cousins from my mother side.D)I have one uncle.
2.Ether injected into gallblader to dissolve galstones. This type one day
treatment is enough for galstones no tfor calcium stones. This method is
alternative to surgery for millions of people who are suffering from this
disease. Which of the following is true?
A) Calcium stones can be cured in one day B) hundreds of people contain
calcium stones C) Surgery is the only treatment to calcium stones.
D)Collestoral galstones can be cured in one day.
3.Hacking is illegal entry into other computer. This is done mostly
because of knowledge of computer neworking with networks. One m/c can
access to another m/c. Hacking go about without knowing that each network
is accredited to use network facility. Which of the following is true?
A)Hacking is due to lack of computer knowledge B) Hacking is appreciable
C) computer networking is an important course. D) none of the above.
4.Alphine tunnels are closed tunnels. In the past thirty years not even a
single accident has been recorded for there is one accident rail road
system. Even in case opf a fire accident it is possible to shift the
passengers into adgjacent vagans and even to living fire can be detected
and extinguish with inthe duration of thirty min. Which of the following
is true? A)No accident can occur in the closed tunnels.B)Fire is allowed
to live for thirty min. C) passengers are (pl. check with yr. paper)
D)none of the above
5.In the past helecopters are forced to ground or crash because of the
formation of the ice on the rotors and the engines. A new electronic
device has been developed which can detect the water content in the
atmosphere and warns the pilot if the temp. is below freezing temp. about
the formation of the ice on the rotors and wings. Which of the following
is true? A)The electronic device can avoid formation of the ice on the wings.
B)it is the only instrument detects the formation of the ice.C)indicate
whether helecopter is crashed or grounded.D)none of the above.
6.In the survey conducted in mubai out of 63 newly married house wives.
not a single house wife felt that the husbands should take equal part in
the house hold work . As they felt they lose their power over their
husbands.Inspite of their carriers opt to do the kitchen work themselves
after coming back to home. The wivews get half as much leisure time as
their husbands get at the week ends. Which of the following is true?
A)House wives want hteir husbands to take part equally in the house hold B)
B)Wives have half as much leisure time as the husbands have.C) in mumbai
housewives want to dominate husbands. D) house wives hate husbands.
7.In confusius day the technology development was less and it took weeks
to communicate a message. Wherein we can send it through satellite within
no time. even with this fast development it has become difficult to
understand each other. Which of the following is true. A) people were not
intellegent during confusius days.B)people are happy in the present days.
C)transportation is well developed in the present days D) people
understand each other very much.
8 to 11: To obtain a govt. post in the republic of malabar you must
either be a member of the ruling independence party or a personal
associate of president zamir. party members seeking govt. posts must
either give a substacial donation in gold bullion to the party campaign
fund or make a televised speech dennouncing president zamir's political
enemies. Gold bullion may be purchased only at the national bank which
does business only withthose who have been certified asa politically
sound by the minister of the justice. Only those who either have been
certified as politically sound by the minister of the justice or have
three hundred hours of service to the independence party are allowed to
make political speeches on television.
     TO become a personal associate of president zamir, you  must either
give a substantial donation in gold bullion to the presidents personal
expence account or performed personal services for a member of his
immediate family . Before appointing a personal associate to the govt.
post. president zamir always checks to make to sure that he or she has
been certified as politically sound by the minister of justice.
8. Mr. Mazir is a member of independence party to abtain a govt. post his
next step must be either A)be certified as politically sound by the
minister of justice or give a substantial donation in gold bullion to the
parties campaign fund. B)Donate 300hrs. of service to the independence or
give a substatial donation in gold to bullion to the president's personal
expense account C)To be certified as political sound by the minister of
justice or donate 300hrs. of service to the party.
D)Perform personal services to a member of pesident Zamir's immediate
family, or make televised speech dennouncing the president's political
enemies.
9.All those who wish to obtain govt. posts must
 1.become personal associate of president Zamir.
 2.be certified as politically sound by the minster of justice.
 3.purchase gold bullion at the national bank.
A)1 only B)2 only C) 2 and 3 only. D) neither 1, 2 and 3
10.Mr.RAzim has been certified as politically sound by the minister of
justice. He may obtain the govt. post immediately only if he
A)has donated 300hrs. of service to the independence party B)is allowed
to make political speeches on T.V. C) is a member of independence party
D) is a personal associate of president Zamir.
11.Because of financial crises the national bank is closed indefinately
those who wish to obtain govt. posts during this period must
A) either perform some kind of services or make televised speeches
denouncing president Zamirs political eniemes.
B. become members of independence party. C) Donate 300 hrs of service of
the independence party D)Become a personal associate of president Zamir
12.If elaine is on the streeing commite then she is on the central
committe.This statement can be logically deduced from which of the
following statements A) All the members of the central committe are on
the steering committe.B)elaine is on either the central committe or on
the steering committe. C) Every who is on the sterring committe is also
on the central committe D) some members of the cerntral committe are on
the steering committe.
13.Frank must be a foot ball player. he is wearing a football jersey.
The conclusion above is valid only it is true that A)foot ball players
often wear foot ball jersey B)all football players wear foot ball
jercies. C)football players never wear nay other kind of shirt other
than football jercies. D)only football players wear football jercies.
14.Todasy's high school students are being educated , they are being
trained. Their teachers demand little of them other than that they
memorize facts and follow directions. The current amphosis on training
in basic maths and verbal skills, while a useful step rarely leads to
essential second step: development of independent critical thinking
   The author would probably consider which of the following aspects of
 students term paper to be most praise worthy?
A)the choice of a challenging topic B) the use of gramatically correct
sentence structure C)evidence of extensive research prior to writing
D)evidence of original insights in freshly developoed concepts.
15.In recommending to the board of trusties a tuition increase of $500
per year, the president of the university said :"there were no student
demonstrations over the previous increases of $300 last year and $200
the year before".
If the president's statement is accurate , Which of the following can
be validly inferred from the information given.
1.most students in previous years felt that the increases were
justified because increased operating costs
2.students apathy was responsible for the failure of students to
protest the previous tuition increases.
3.students are not likely to demonstrate over the new tuition increase.
A)1 only B)2 only C) 1or2 but not both D) neither 1,2,nor 3
16.A meadow in spring time is beautiful , even if noone is there is
appreciate it.
  The statement above would be logical rebuttal to which of following
claims? A)people will see only what they want to see.
B)beauty is only skin deep C)there is no accounting for taste.
D)beauty exists only in the eye of the beholder.
17.Since it is possible that substances conatained in certain tree roots
may provide a cure for cancer. the govt. must provide sufficient funds to
allow thorough testing of this possibility. The argument above assumes that
A)Substances contained certain tree roots willprobably cure cancer.
B)The line research mentioned offers at present the promisive possibility
for finding a cure for cancer.
C)The possibility of finding a cure is sufficient reason for finding
reasearch into possible cancer cures.
D)A cure for cancer would be extremely valuable to society.
18.19>>
    In 1978 thomas mathus published "Essay on papulation" in which he
postulated the food supply can never keep pace with the  rate of increase
in the human in papulation.
 18> which of the following statements if true would tend to weaken
Mathues argument ?
    1. The total population of humans has raisen at a rapid rate or
partly because of the removal of natural checks on papulation.
2. In many nations the increase in human population has far outstripped
the food producing capacity.
3> Human population growth may be halted by the use of contraception.
4. For many ethuic and religious groups artificial control of concepction
is morally unacceptable.
 A) 1 only
B) 1 and 2 C) 2 and 4 only  D) 3 only.
19. Which of the follwing would be most likely to help limit the demands
placed on food supplys
A) wars B) conservation of natural resources. C) Better farming methods
D) improved disease control

20. Most people who take the experimental medicine GRE / APT develop
headaches: therefore if alice does not take GRE/APT, she will probably
not develop headaches
 The argument above most resembles which of the following?
 A) most dobermans are easy to train ,so both is sure to have no troble
training the doberman she has just bought.
B) most US built cars are poorly made;since this car is well made it was
probably not built in US.
C) most broad way plays are very well acted so the logic game ,which is
not a broad way play ,is probably not well acted.
D) most engineeres spent many years in school so sharon who has spent
many years in school is probably  an engneer.



                     ANSWER KEY FOR SECTION #3
                     CRITICAL REASONING
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


1-B; 2-D;3-A;4-A;5-C;6-C;7-C;8-C;9-D;10-D;11-A;12-C;13-D;14-D;15-B;16-D;17-C
18-D;19-A;20-C
----------------------------------------------------------------------------