Alice Programming.

What is a good programming language to start with? How can I learn to program?
How can I develop my own games, play them and share with my friends too?
I want something simple to start learning to program. 
If these questions had ever occured in your mind, then I would like to
introduce you to Alice.

Alice is a programming environment to teach you how to program.

It is very easy to learn Alice and if one spends a couple of hours with it, one
can develop pretty good games using it.

Let me give you the basic idea behind alice.

1. There is this world. 
2. There are actors both living and non-living.
3. Place those actors in the world and define what they need to do, both
conditionally and un-conditionally.

Simply put, that is it. The whole world is a game.

If you know some programming jargon, then.

1. The world is an event loop.
2. The Actors are Objects with properties and methods.
3. You can call the methods of the objects on events.

To start with Alice, you may have to download the Alice Environment from
www.alice.org. Just make sure you have Java Installed in your computer as Alice
itself is written in Java. You don't need to learn Java.

When you run Alice, you might be prompted to take the tutorial. The tutorial is
the best place to start when you are using Alice for the first time.

The first tutorial is Ice Skater tutorial, which has an Ice Skater already
placed in the world. You define the movements of the ice-skater led by the
tutorial.

If you see the Programming Environment, you will notice that it is divided into
parts, each explaining different things. Do not let yourself be confused by
this.  As we noted, there is world and objects, on each object when you click,
you will see what those objects are capable of, this is called methods, and in
the right hand side bottom, you will see a big area for describing what to do
in those methods. 
On the right hand side top is the area, where you will define, things like
"When something happens in the World" do this.

"When I press the left arrow key on the keyboard", move the car (object) left.

Well, you dont need to type those as in English, there are certain predefined
events which are available and you will be using them only.

Now, getting back, when you start Alice, just take the tutorial and watch for
yourself as how you can program and animate the Ice Skater.

The next program that would like to do would be to make the penguins sing a
song. Even this could be completed in 15-20 minutes. When you run the program,
you will see that your have developed a piano like game.

These are the basics of Alice, but underneath it is teaching you the essence of
programming too. Most often Object Oriented Programming which many people talk
about is nothing about this and it is sometimes surprising that, many a times
programmer use the terms without much visualization.

Alice kind of visualization helps programmer too in understanding things
better.


If all the while, if you think that Alice is a tool for children, you will be
surprised to know that almost similar environment is used in Industry Standard
Virtual Reality and Animation programs too.

After all, this came out from the virtual reality experts from Carnegie Mellon
University. 

Alice was the dream of late Prof Randy Pausch, whom you might have known from
his "The Last Lecture", which teachs some invaluable life lessons.

Alice is fun to program. As with any other task, trying to define simple things
and building on top, would be good idea to get started.

Try out your game today, hope you will enjoy developing and playing it.



Links.
1. Alice - http://www.alice.org 
