Technical Interviews

Review the basics

Write code, especially if you are “rusty” in a given language

Review algorithms and data structures

If you claim to be an “expert” or “master” in something, be prepared to be grilled about it!
Think about how to write software to test software
Think about why, how, and where software breaks

You can expect questions that evaluate your skills in three primary areas:

1. Coding

- You should know at least one programming language really well, and it should
preferably be an object-oriented language, ideally C++ or Java (C# is OK since
it’s similar to Java)

- You should know a fair amount of detail about your favourite language,
including justifying why it’s your favourite

- If your favourite language is C or Python, you might be better suited as a
Software Engineer in Site Reliability Engineering (talk to your Recruiter about
this)

- Sample topics: construct / traverse data structures, implement system
routines, distill large data sets to single values, transform one data set to
another.

2. Algorithms

- You need to know Big-O complexity analysis really well → it’s OK to quickly
come up with a brute force solution, but that’s never going to be the answer →
always look for an O(n*logn) solution or ideally a linear one

- Searching and sorting algorithms (Quicksort, Mergesort, etc) → know more than
one O(n*logn) sorting algorithm → know how they work and how to optimise for
time and space

- Hash tables → be able to implement one using only arrays

- Trees → know tree construction, traversal, and manipulation algorithms.
Familiarise yourself with binary trees, n-ary trees and trie-trees, and at
least one type of balanced binary tree

- Know the classic computer science problems (Shortest Path, Traveling
Salesman, Knapsack, etc)

Interview Hints

- Talk through your thought processes. Our engineers are evaluating not only
your technical abilities but how you approach & solve problems

- Ask clarifying questions if you do not understand the problem or need more
information. Many of the questions asked in Google interviews are deliberately
underspecified because our engineers are looking to see how you engage the
problem. In particular, they are looking to see which areas leap to your mind
as the most important piece of the technological puzzle you've been presented

- Think about ways to improve the solution you'll present. In many cases, the
first answer that springs to mind isn't the most elegant solution & may need
some refining. It's definitely worthwhile to talk about your initial thoughts
to a question, but jumping immediately into presenting a brute force solution
will be received less well than taking time to compose a more efficient
solution.

- Show an interest in Google products. What is your favourite product, and how
would you improve it?

Videos

Classic problems

Towers of Hanoi

There's a temple in the middle of Hanoi. In that temple, there are three very
large diamond-encrusted posts, and on those posts are sixty-four disks, all of
a different size. There are a set of priests in that temple, and their task is
to move the entire stack of sixty-four disks from one post to a second post.
The rules, though, are, they can only move one disk at a time, and they can
never cover up a smaller disk with a larger disk. Write a  recursive program to
solve this problem. What is the complexity?

Searching and sorting algorithms

Write code to search a sorted list.  Write a binary search algorithm.  Write a
selection sort algorithm.  Write code to create a hash table of size 256

Shortest path problem
Write an algorithm to plan a route by minimising distance or time (eg Google Maps)

Traveling salesman
Write an algorithm to determine the least cost round-trip, given multiple
cities and varying costs of flights

Knapsack problem 
Write an algorithm to optimize the value of items you can fit into a backpack
based on weight and volume

Sorting algorithms - know how they work, average/worst case running times,
stack space

Insertion sort
Quicksort
Mergesort
Heapsort


Searching algorithms
Sequential search
Binary search
Hashing
Binary search trees
Key indexing


Other algorithms
Priority queues
Selection
Back of the envelope calculations
Know your powers of 2 (binary)
Be able to express mega/giga/etc in binary and/or scientific notation
Know cycle times and disk seek times for CPUs
Explain and justify your assumptions
Don’t be afraid of dealing with huge numbers!

Sample questions from Programming Pearls

1. How do you sort 10 million 7-digit phone numbers with ~1MB RAM? How would
you solve this using one pass and no intermediate files? What if 1MB RAM was a
firm limit?

2. Given a sequential file that contains at most four billion 32-bit integers
in random order, find a 32-bit integer that isn’t in the file (and there must
be at least one missing...why?). How would you solve this with unlimited main
memory? How would you solve it if you could use several external files but only
a few bytes of main memory?

3. Rotate a one-dimensional vector of n elements left by i positions. For
instance, with n=8 and i=3, the vector abcdefg is rotated to defghabc. Simple
code uses an n-element intermediate vector to do the job in n steps. Can you
rotate the vector in time proportional to n using only a few dozen extra bytes
of storage?

4. Given a dictionary of English words, find sets of anagrams. For instance,
“pots”, “stop”, and “tops” are all anagrams of one another because each can be
found by permuting the letters of the others.

5. Write functions for the following date problems: given two dates, compute
the number of days between them; given a date, return it’s day of the week;
given a month and year, produce a calendar of the month as an array of
characters

6. Given a very long sequence (say, billions or trillions) of bytes, how would
you efficiently count the total number of one bits? (i.e. how many bits are
turned on in the entire sequence)

7. Although Quicksort uses only O(logn) stack space on the average, it can use
linear space in the worst case. Explain why, then modify the program to use
only logarithmic space in the worst case.

8. Write a program for finding the kth-smallest element in the array x[0...n-1]
in O(n) expected time. Your algorithm may permute the elements of x.

9. Build the fastest possible complete function to generate a sorted array of
random integers without duplicates. (You need feel constrained to use any
prescribed interface for set representation)

10.Implement heap-based priority queues to run as quickly as possible; at what
values of n are they faster than sequential structures?

If you have not already read through Steve Yegge's Technical Prep Tips on his blog

The Algorithm Design Manual ‐ A lot you'd want to know about designing and
implementing lots of fundamental aglorithms Structure and Interpretation of
Computer Programs ‐  (esp. Pragmatic Unit Testing, Effective Java, Code
Complete 2, Agile Estimation and Planning).
