University of Toronto

Application for Ph.D in Computer Science, specializing in algorithms, theory of
computation, programming languages and distributed systems.

I am interested in pursuing research in Computer Science at University of
Toronto, specializing in the inter-related fields of algorithms and study of
theory of computation, programming language design and distributed systems.  I
have an active research interest use of algorithms in modeling and solving real
world problems connected with distributed systems.

As a PhD student, I would embark on a career devoted to development of computer
science. I would be engaged in research and teaching on how to develop better
software. My Industry experience and my interests would make me suitable for
such a role.

I attended National Engineering College in India where I majored in Computer
Science and Engineering in the year 2002. I secured 78% as the aggregate
percentage in the University Examinations, and stood 8th in my class of 60. 

I undertook certificate courses in Artificial Intelligence and Cryptography at
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in 2008, Those courses presented me with
an oppurtunity to work on interesting theoretical problems in Crypography, and
study of mathematics involved in the various cryptographic algorithms. I
secured very good grades in those courses too.

Who Dares wins! An algorithm game where I studied the A* algorithms from Peter
Norvig's books, studied the lisp implementations for N puzzle game, and
converted them into a two player game using Python and Pygame, SDL library in
python. This visulaization of the algorithm helped the players appreciate the
computer moves.

As a software engineer in the Computer Industry for 7 years, I have worked on
wide range of projects in a variety of role ranging from technical support to
architecting a software products. I have also worked as a independent
consultant for companies assisting in development of Internal Software
Infrastrcture.

I have developed various automation, simulation, configution management, and
testing tools utilizing a variety of technologies. I have mentored and led
developers in modern design patterns, implementation, debugging, documentation,
and testing practices. These skills and experience would be helpful to me as a
teaching assistant.

I have shown inclination towards research work and occupied myself with
interesting fundamental problems. I have also shown the ability to translate
the solutions for the problems into innovative product implementations.
This is supported by four invention disclosures that have been filed with USPTO
during my employment with Dell India Research and Development Center.

The Content Search in Blu-Ray is an efficient search algorithm using small
moemory because it is an embeded media, it exploits the peculiar nature of data
for implmenting the search in BluRay media. The results which of interest to
the end user are obtained in an indirect and an effecient by indexing subtitles
rather than then video frames.

I was awarded "Co-Inventor for the Year 2007" for my Invention disclosures in
the Blu-Ray media, which were filed with USPTO.

At Akamai, I have seen a certain good implementation of a standard computer
science algorithms and theories in practise. As this company was formed by
theoretical computer science experts, I see the implementation of the
algorithms like Open Shortest Path first implemented for finding an effective
route for packets across the systems as one of core technologies.  Cache
Oblivious Algorithms has developed a good load balancing algorithms for
distributed systems. And current focus on algorithms geared towards distributed
computing,i.e. cloud architecture.

For my own project of desinging an asynchronous requesting handling server to
for distributed log collection from the network, I used a very standard
programming model, a reactor pattern, and asynchornous programing using
deferreds. The twisted framework provided a neat implementation of these has
been very stable.

Researched on concurrency concepts and selected a deferred based concurrency
system for implementing a multi-threaded server as part of my work at Akamai.

I got involved with Python language development through Google Summer of Code
program in 2007. I worked on enhancing the standard library modules and with my
regular contributions, I am currently the maintainer for urllib in Python
language 3. Working on a large scale open source project involved a constant
research of Internet RFCs, and developing code adherent to strict standards. It
also helped me to understand the distributed nature of Open Source Development.

Apart from the technical skills, that important social skills that Python
language project has taught me is to be respectful and considerate of others
views. I have been inspired by developers of Python like Guido van Rossum,
Martin Von Lowis and other contributers who work compiler architecture,
floating pointing operations and performance improvement.

"Algorithms in Python" where I demonstrated all the common algorithm problems
in Python, explaining the complexity of each solution. I studied the kind of
sorting algorithm, timsort,  that is going inside the language interpretor for
sorting the elements in the language while providing higher level sort
interface to the programmer.

I plan to contribute to python language further through out the period of my
graduate studies. One the areas which I have recognized I will be working on is
the networking library modules that would handle ipv6 protocols effectively and
url parsing modules for Non English URLS as the IRI (Internationalized Resource
Identifiers are becoming common), I would like gain understanding of the
Interpretor core and enhancements to it, making improvements to it to make a
Python a suitable language for distributed computing tasks.

As I was planning to get into academia, my self-study of computer science
subjects involved attending to online lectures of Dr. Shai Simonson at Ars
Digita Uni web. I am
inspired by his way of teaching computer science which essentially focussed on
gaining an insight and a right intuition of the problem to come up with
effective solutions.  I had undertaken solving all problem in K&R and other
interesting problems in different programming languages.

Research on technologies that are helpful to people. I have studied and used
Dasher for an alternative text input system. Researched a lot in Voice
Recognition and have used it for providing a good computing interface for
people which disability and who could operate computers which voice.

I was honored with best teacher award by Spastics Society of Karnataka, for my
volunteer work and teaching Robotics to the students, in the year 2008.

Interests and teaching using Visual Programming Languages like Alice and
Mindstorms NXT. 

I have come to know good programmers from University of Toronto from Topcoder
competitions and have also know Prog Greg through his books like Beautiful Code
and his writings and snippets in Python.

I would be dependent on finantial aid for my graduate studies, and PhD program
with its research assistance stipend will help to meet financial demands.
