I would like to pursue research in Computer Science at the University of
Toronto, specializing in algorithms and study of related fields such as the
theory of computation, programming language design and distributed systems.  I
have a keen interest in developing algorithms for modeling and solving real
world problems.
As a PhD student, I would like to embark on a career devoted to the development
of computer science which will involve teaching and research on the
development of better software. My Industry experience and my interests render
me perfect for such a role.

My undergraduate studies were completed at the National Engineering College,
India, in the year 2002. Here, I majored in Computer Science and Engineering
and secured an aggregate of 78% in the University examinations, and was ranked
8th in my class of 60. 

My certificate course in Artificial Intelligence and Cryptography at the Indian
Institute of Science, Bangalore, 2008 provided me with the opportunity to work
on interesting, theoretical problems in Cryptography, and in the study of
mathematics involved in the various cryptographic algorithms. Not only did I
secure excellent grades in the course, but I also developed two player games
using the A* algorithm.

As a software engineer in the Computer Industry for 7 years, I have worked on
wide range of projects, in a variety of roles ranging from technical support to
an architect. I have also worked as an independent consultant for companies
assisting in the development of Internal Software Infrastructure.

Over the years, I have developed various automation, simulation, configuration
management, and testing tools utilizing a variety of technologies. I have
mentored and led developers in modern design patterns, implementation,
debugging, documentation, and testing practices. The rich repertoire of skills
and experience that I have gained as a result of these experiences would be
immensely helpful to me as  a teaching assistant and research scholar.

Very early in my career, I have veered towards research work and occupied
myself with interesting fundamental problems,  the solutions for which, I have
been able to successfully translate into innovative product implementations.
This is supported by four invention disclosures that have been filed with USPTO
during my employment with Dell India Research and Development Center.
