University of California, Irvine

I am interested in pursuing a MS program in Computer Science specializing in
the fields of Distributed Systems and Networking Programming.

I see MS course as a preparatory step towards a PhD and a research oriented
career wherein, I would like to be devoted to the development of computer
science and enjoy learning and teaching interesting computer science concepts,
and research on the development of better software systems. I believe, my
interests and my Industry experience render me suitable for such a role. 

I have been working as Software Developer in the Computer Industry for 7 years
and I have worked on wide range of projects, in a variety of roles ranging from
technical support to an architect. Over the years, I have developed various
system software tools and solutions using technologies like Python, C and C++.
I have a deep understanding of Python language and in the domain of network
programming.  I have also realized my ability to come out with innovative
solutions to engineering problems. This is supported by the four patents filed
with USTPO for my invention disclosures.

Currently as a Senior Software Engineer at Akamai, I am involved with
designing of a distributed requested handling server, which fetches log data
from Akamai's distributed computing platform and provides it to Map-Reduce
framework for Analysis. At Akamai, I also see the implementation of standard
Computer Science Algorithms and theories in practice. I understand the value of
specialization in computer science education that can help in building
effective solutions.

My interests for research in Computer Science was augmented when I got involved
with Python language development in 2007, through Google Summer of Code. I
started working on standard library modules and with regular contributions, I
have now become the maintainer for urllib module in Python language 3. Working
on a large scale software project like Python has also taught me important
social skills required to work with a diverse group of highly experienced
programmers and researchers. I plan to continue contributing to the python
language through out my graduate studies. I see the potential work in improving
libraries to support IPv6, handling IRI (Internationalized Resource
Identifiers) and also improving the Interpreter core to support concurrency
better. I have presented a numbers papers at various conferences like PyCon,
Scipy in these areas.

I worked as a Software Engineering at Dell India R&D for 6 years. I learnt
important software engineering skills, planning and execution and innards of
system software testing and development at Dell. Through Dell, I have filed Two
patents in Blu-Ray media, One patent in Printer and One software patent in
Systems Management Software. For my contributions to Dell Patent Portfolio, I
was awarded the "Co-Inventor of the year" in the year 2007.

I am involved with Spastics Society of Karnataka for the past 4 years, as I
found that I liked to help people with developmental disabilities and help them
to use computers using assistive technologies. I have researched the use of
various accessibility technologies like voice recognition and helped the
adoption of those with the organization. I was honored as a "Best Teacher" by
School in the year 2009.

My undergraduate studies were completed at the National Engineering College,
India, in the year 2002. Here, I majored in Computer Science and Engineering
and secured an aggregate of 77% in the University examinations, and was ranked
8th in my class of 60. I also undertook part-time courses in Artificial
Intelligence and Cryptography at Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore in 2007.

Very early in my career, I turned towards research and occupied myself with
interesting fundamental problems. My project, Uthcode, which I setup to solve
interesting programming problems, has a accumulation of many standard solutions
and more than 10,000 lines of code in C,Python and C++.

Recently, I came across a lot of Python code and articles written by Dr. David
Eppstein, who is a professor at University of California, Irvine.  Reading his
articles, code and knowing about the research work undertaken by him influenced
me positively to apply for Masters Program at your University.

With these interests and skills in my repertoire, I believe, I am  a good
candidate to pursue research oriented programs in your esteemed University.
Please consider my application for a M.S program in Distributed Systems and
Network Programming. 
